Now the terminal, this is my jam, okay?
This is where I feel
I've spent more time in.
Obviously not enough time, but
definitely more of my time is spent here.
Vim is where I've spent all my time,
right?
Then I spent more time playing around
with terminal stuff and then less for
everything else.
And so this is,
I find this to be super sad.
No, where we're not talking
about Vim today, I get it, okay?
I know I want to, I wanna tell you
about our lord and savior Vim, but
I'm not gonna do that today, okay?
And so just to be upfront,
I use xterm and tmux.
Xterm is really old,
it's just your basic terminal
emulator that comes on a lot of systems,
easy to use.
There's also GNOME Terminal,
I just use the old stuff.
I don't want any of the new fancy stuff.
I don't need it,
they tend to be slower at rendering.
I just want simple, right?
I just want simple, straightforward,
and of course, tmux.
And tmux is really incredible, not just
because it's incredible by itself.
But it also works on,
you can use it on your Windows,
you can use it on Mac OS X,
and you can use it on Linux.
And the best part is, is that once you
have an RC setup and the way you like
to use it, you get to use tmux on all
three of those systems the same way.
For me that is just a huge selling point,
right?
I just want a similar uniform experience.
I know at some point in my future
I'm gonna have to use a Mac and
it's gonna happen and
I'm gonna shed my Mac tears.
And then I'm gonna have to set up my
system and I'll just use tmux, and
I'll be a happy camper anyway,
so it'll be fine.
And really the problem we're
trying to solve is this one.
Now, this one, I swear I already
feel my cortisol going up.
I used to be this, I kid you not,
I was definitely 100% this person
at one point in my lifetime.
So many terminals, so many things,
it was just stressing me out all the time.
So we're gonna get started.
This is where really the fun starts.
Now, if I'm not, let's see,
yeah, a little story about me.
I did wanna put this in here.
When I was younger,
you remember that job I told you about
where they said what about grep?
I had to use a lot of terminals.
The first time I ever had to use
a terminal ever in a professional
environment, we used GAE, Google App
Engine back then, we also had AWS, right?
And then there's a lot of stuff you
had to set up inside the terminal.
And I'd have iTerm2 and
I'd have 15 tabs, and
every time I need to find something,
[SOUND] it was always so painful.
And then I had an intern, I was a tech
lead for one of these things, and I had
an intern and I remember he was just like
yeah, I just use bash for these things.
And I remember thinking bash is such
a stupid language, it's just so
annoying to write,
it's impossible to read.
It really is impossible to read, though.
And I just like,
why would you ever use it?
And he's just like, yeah, cuz it just
works on every computer in the world,
it's fantastic.
And I remember going, yeah,
I mean, this guy has a point here.
And so, that kind of helped
lead me further down this road,
that one simple interaction like hey,
you know what?
Maybe I have opinions about
things I really don't understand.
Maybe I should take
a little bit more time.
And my love of the terminal and
of the shell and
all those things of that lifestyle grew
from that point, which is really funny,
I don't even think he knows it.
I'm not gonna be recommending any of
the new terminal emulators, like I said,
xterm, it was developed in 1984, okay?
It's older than me, which is fantastic.
But we all know the moment you mention
a terminal emulator, what happens?
This guy comes in,
he needs to tell you about Alacritty.
Alacritty, the greatest terminal ever.
It's written in Rust, so
you already know it's fantastic, right?
If anything's written in Rust, it's
already better than the previous version.
But here's the thing,
the moment you mention Alacritty, too bad,
Alacritty guy, there's actually the Kitty
guy that comes out and goes no, Kitty,
Kitty is the greatest terminal ever.
I have never had a conversation ever on
the Internet that does not devolve into
Kitty versus Alacritty when
terminals are brought up.
So that's why I've stayed out of it,
I'm on something from generations ago,
it's fantastic.
So we're really gonna focus really
in to multiplexing your terminal
experience to solve that problem
that we've showed you earlier.
But really to,
what I call that harpoon navigation style,
to really be able to get to where you
want to be as fast as you possibly can.
You stop having all this navigation woes,
all the different terminals open, or
the control tab going through
each one of the different tabs.
You don't wanna live that, you don't
want that, I don't want that for you,
you don't want that for you,
let's fix that, all right?
And so we can kinda get started now,
really into the technical
part of the next section.